1. From emp table write a SQL query to find those employees whose ID matches any 
   of the numbers 7902, 7876 and 7934. Return all the fields. 
 SELECT * FROM emp WHERE empno in(7902,7876,7934);

2. From emp table, write a SQL query to find the employee whose salary is 3000 and 
   reporting person’s ID is 7876. Return all fields.
 select * from emp where sal =3000 and mgr=7876;
 
3. From emp table  write a SQL query to find those employees whose salary falls within 
   the range of the smallest salary and 2500. Return all the fields.
 select * from emp where sal between (select min(sal) from emp) and 2500;

4. From emp table, write a SQL query to find those employees who do not work in the 
   departments where managers’ IDs are between 7566 and 7698 
   (Begin and end values are included.). Return all the fields of the employeess.
  select * from emp where deptno not in (select deptno from emp where mgr between 7566 and 7698);

5. From emp table, write a SQL query to find those employees who get second-highest salary. Return all the fields of the employees. 
select * from emp e where 1= (select count(distinct sal) from emp e1 where e1.sal>e.sal);

6. From emp table write a SQL query to find those employees who work in the same department
   as ‘Ward’. Return first name, last name and hire date. 
select ename, hiredate from emp where deptno= (select deptno from emp where ename='WARD');

7. From emp table, write a SQL query to find those employees who work in a department where the
   employee’s first name contains the letter 'J'. Return employee ID, first name and last name.
select empno, ename from emp where deptno in (select deptno from emp where regexp_like(ename,'.*J.*'));

8. From emp table, write a SQL query to find those employees who earn more than the average salary 
   and work in the same department as an employee whose first name contains the letter 'B'. Return employee ID, first 
   name and salary.
select empno,sal from emp where sal>(select avg(sal) from emp where regexp_like(ename,'^B.*')  group by deptno);
   
9. From emp table, write a SQL query to find those employees whose department is located at
   ‘Chicago’. Return first name, last name, employee ID  .
select empno,ename from emp where deptno = (select deptno from dept where loc ='CHICAGO');
10.From emp table, write a SQL query to calculate total salary of the departments where at least one 
   employee works. Return department ID, total salary
select deptno,sum(sal) from emp group by deptno having count(empno)>=1;

11.From emp table, write a SQL query to check whether there are any employees with salaries
   exceeding 1500. Return first name, last name and department ID
select ename,deptno, sal from emp where sal>1500;

12.From emp table, write a SQL query to find those employees whose salaries are higher 
   than the average for all departments
select * from emp where sal> (select avg(sal) from emp );

13.From emp table, write a SQL query to find those employees who earn more than the minimum salary of 
   a department of ID 30. Return first name, last name, salary, and department ID
select ename,sal, deptno from emp where sal>(select min(sal) from emp where deptno= 30);

14.From emp table, write a SQL query to find those employees whose salary matches that of the employee 
   who works in department ID 30. Return first name, last name, salary, and department ID.
select ename, sal, deptno from emp where sal in(select sal from emp where deptno= 30);

15.From emp table, write a SQL query to find employees who work for the department in which employee
   ID 7788 is employed. Return first name, last name, salary, and department ID. 
select ename,sal, deptno from emp where deptno=(select deptno from emp where empno=7788);
16. From emp table, write a SQL query to find departments for a particular location. The location matches 
    the location of the department of ID 30. Return department name and department ID
SELECT deptno , dname from dept where 